---
title: "Tool Learning with Foundation Models"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-04-17-Tool
excerpt: 'The paper investigates the potential of foundation models in skillfully utilizing tools'
date: 2023-04-17
venue: 'NMI'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08354.pdf'
citation: '@misc{qin2023tool,
      title={Tool Learning with Foundation Models}, 
      author={Yujia Qin and Shengding Hu and Yankai Lin and Weize Chen and Ning Ding and Ganqu Cui and Zheni Zeng and Yufei Huang and Chaojun Xiao and Chi Han and Yi Ren Fung and Yusheng Su and Huadong Wang and Cheng Qian and Runchu Tian and Kunlun Zhu and Shihao Liang and Xingyu Shen and Bokai Xu and Zhen Zhang and Yining Ye and Bowen Li and Ziwei Tang and Jing Yi and Yuzhang Zhu and Zhenning Dai and Lan Yan and Xin Cong and Yaxi Lu and Weilin Zhao and Yuxiang Huang and Junxi Yan and Xu Han and Xian Sun and Dahai Li and Jason Phang and Cheng Yang and Tongshuang Wu and Heng Ji and Zhiyuan Liu and Maosong Sun},
      year={2023},
      eprint={2304.08354},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL}
}'
---

Humans possess an extraordinary ability to create and utilize tools, allowing them to overcome physical limitations and explore new frontiers. With the advent of foundation models, AI systems have the potential to be equally adept in tool use as humans. This paradigm, i.e., tool learning with foundation models, combines the strengths of specialized tools and foundation models to achieve enhanced accuracy, efficiency, and automation in problem-solving. Despite its immense potential, there is still a lack of a comprehensive understanding of key challenges, opportunities, and future endeavors in this field. To this end, we present a systematic investigation of tool learning in this paper. We first introduce the background of tool learning, including its cognitive origins, the paradigm shift of foundation models, and the complementary roles of tools and models. Then we recapitulate existing tool learning research into tool-augmented and tool-oriented learning. We formulate a general tool learning framework: starting from understanding the user instruction, models should learn to decompose a complex task into several subtasks, dynamically adjust their plan through reasoning, and effectively conquer each sub-task by selecting appropriate tools. We also discuss how to train models for improved tool-use capabilities and facilitate the generalization in tool learning. Considering the lack of a systematic tool learning evaluation in prior works, we experiment with 17 representative tools and show the potential of current foundation models in skillfully utilizing tools. Finally, we discuss several open problems that require further investigation for tool learning. Overall, we hope this paper could inspire future research in integrating tools with foundation models.

[Download paper here](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08354.pdf)

